N3. CHANGES IN PERSONAL NETWORKS DURING ECOLOGICAL
TRANSITIONS
Authors:
Isidro Maya Jariego - Universidad de Sevilla
Carla Andreia Carvalho Gómez - Universidad de Sevilla
Cristina Varo Martín - Universidad de Sevilla
Collaborators:
Pedro Almagro Blanco
Lorena Avalos Rodríguez
Mónica Rueda García
Pablo Osuna Pérez
Natividad González Blanco
Brief: The changes experienced by the personal networks of High School students
when they start to study at the University are described. A group of students from
Alcala de Guadaira enters in a metropolitan way of life when they start to study in
Seville, as they start to commute almost everyday between the city where they reside
and the city where they study (separated by 15 kilometers). The relationship between
the changes experienced in the composition and the structure of the personal
networks are examined. We are also interested in evaluating how the changes in the
personal network of each student is related to the connection they have with the cohort
of students experiencing the same educational transition.
Parameters:
1. Representing the process of changes in the personal network after incorporating to
the university.
H1: Inverse relationship between level of heterogeneity (composition) and the
structural cohesion of the network (structure).
H2: Competence between active multiplex relationships (there is a limit in the
number of multiplex relationships an individual could maintain simultaneously).
H3: Graphic summary of the personal networks.
2. Classification of the personal networks regarding (a) percentage of alteri from the
city where they reside, (b) multiplexity (and distribution/connectivity of multiplex links),
(c) structure of the personal network.
3. Define the probabilities of desconection from the whole network depending on the
type of personal network of each individual, in order to study the disagregation process
of the whole network.
Key question: How are the changes in the composition of the personal network
related to the structure of the personal network? Which types of personal networks
may be identified? How the type of personal network is related to the position each
invidual occupy in the whole network of High School students living the transition?
