N4. WILL THE FROG JUMP OUT? INSTITUTION-FACULTY
RELATIONSHIPS IN THE UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH ZEMBLA
Authors:
José Pérez de Lama - Universidad de Sevilla
María José Lera Rodríguez - Universidad de Sevilla
Antonio Sáseta Velázquez - Universidad de Sevilla
Collaborators:
Jesús Horno Cobo
Miguel Gutiérrez Villarrubia
Sergio Morales Casas
M. Carmen Romero Ternero
Lorenzo Perea Lerate
Iván Coronado Moreno
Ricardo Jiménez Odero
Rocío García
Brief: During the great crisis of 2007-2013, the central government of the evil Charles
Kinbote and his minister E. Shade, are inflicting severe policies cutting down budgets
on social services, and particularly in the areas of basic and university education. In
the old and honorable University of South Zembla, located in the southern capital of the
country, the Board and its collaborators hold an ambiguous position by supporting
rebellious discourses against the followers of Kinbote-Shade, while at the same time
making effective those resolutions coming from the central government among their
faculty.
A minority yet substantial part of the faculty, the Pink-Bloc, promotes resistance
against the Board and higher authorities, is making efforts to call on a faculty strike as
a proof of power, and as a means to balance political forces. However, most faculty,
despite feeling under attack, remain passive, perhaps because they are skeptical
towards any act of mobilization, or simply because the best way to keep their jobs is
to adapt to the emergent conditions the best they can.
The Pink-Bloc will take the metaphore of the frog in the cooking pot, which bacame
popular after american politic Al Gore, to interpretate the political techniques of the
University of South Zembla, which are being developed by the Board thanks to the
unestimable collaboration of the historically honorable labor unions, which after so
many years of dedication to fight capitalist oppression, have finally been abducted by
the local spheres of power...
Key question: Will the frog jump out? Or what are the conditions required in order for
a faculty strike to take place in the University of South Zembla? And what level of
success could such strike achieve upon diferent configurations of these conditions?
