N5A. RESIDENTIAL SETTLEMENT OF THE POPULATION AT
SUB REGIONAL SCALE
Author:
Carolina de Carvalho Cantergiani - Universidad de Alcalá
Collaborators:
César Vergara Martín
Antonia Chávez González
Javier Fernández López
José Manuel Calahorro Gómez
Luis Pardillo Caballero
Brief: The Community of Madrid (CM) is strategically placed in Spain and functionally
important since it concentrates the transport network main connections, important
industrial activities and central administrative services, among others. It results to be
very active demographically, producing important territorial changes, confirmed by
urban and potential urban land growth statistics, for example. The study area is an
important urban-industrial corridor that connects the megalopolis of Madrid and
Barcelona, named Corredor del Henares within 18 municipalities.
This area has been historically characterized as population and productive activities
attractor during periods of decentralization of Madrid and other neighbor municipalities.
It can be considered a potential area for urban growth analysis and simulation due to
its important demographic growth and land use dynamics. And moreover, those results
are also important for being useful for planning and territorial management of its
territory.
Analyzing the dynamics of the study area, the three selected agents we consider
influence its urban growth are: population, real estate agents and urban planners. They
simultaneously induce this phenomenon through their own behavior, stimulating the
creation of new urban settlements.
The three agents' behaviors do not compete for the same goal; instead they are re-feed
according to each other action. It means that the planners assign new urban areas
(having into account the still not-urban areas); the real estate agents look for available
places to build new residence on previously classified urban areas; and finally the
population consider the offer of new and empty housing to choose new residences.
The challenge in the model presented in this document is to simulate the residence
election of the population that finally decides to move. Three groups of population are
considered according to their behavior, defined in function of their economic status
(high, medium and low income), that is supposed to be the most important factor that
induces residential changes.
Key question: How urban growth at Corredor del Henares (Madrid) can be understood
and represented through the behavior of groups of population with different economic
status in respect to their residential choices?
