N5C. MAKING CITY IN THE "NON-CITY": INTEGRATION
VERSUS ISOLATION
Author:
Antonio Piñero Valverde - Universidad de Sevilla
Collaborators:
Gonzalo A. Aranda Corral
Irene Luque Martín
Brief: In Andalusia there exist around 350,000 irregular constructions according to
city-planning land-use specifications, which prove to be a serious territorial and social
problem, raising nowadays up to becoming the biggest obstacle when attempting to
obtain a rational, coherent and sensible arrangement in good part of the Andalusian
territory.
Although in the outcrop of this type of settlements, circumstances of diverse nature
concur, all of them present/display certain similarities: its spontaneous and absent
character of planning, the environmental affections that cause or deficiencies
generalized in services and infrastructural matter.
To date, the solutions developed by the Administration reveal their incapacity to solve
this problem effeciently and, largely, they show a progressive spacing between the
normative frame and the reality that is tried to order, inasmuch as it is tried of
unidirectional way to assimilate these differentials processes to the model of traditional
compact city and it is producing serious distortions, when situations indecisive or
nonviable not to take to the practice.
Consequently, the demand of a new approach of the problem is clear, that takes care
in greater measurement the specific characteristics of these irregular processes and
raise innovating alternatives in which the active participation is essential from the
affected ones.
In that sense, and aiming to deepen in the definition of strategies for urban-territorial
integration of these irregular settlements, we have made one first approach in the
exercises of factory of the Masters in Urbanism, Planning and Urban Design and,
recently, we have been awardees from one of the aids of investigation promoted by the
Public Work Agency of Andalusia.
Without damage to the complexity of the problem created, we attempt to develop
expertise in the simulation of complex scenes - as it is the case with a great space
component and, to the time, of enormous social impact, all it to the aim to clarify new
ways to articulate these territories of "not-city", in which the users are - in good
measureme - protagonists of the possible solutions.
Conscious of the difficulties and diversity of situations, in this proposal we try to clarify
the viability of solutions that, one at a time, prove - in our certain opinion abuse of the
parameters of the norm of applicable regulation and, of another one, promote
alternatives that emanate of the own affected population.
Key question: Can new ways be articulated to integrate in the territory the existing
illegal housing plots in Andalusia?
