N6. MICROBIAL POPULATIONS WITHIN A BIOREACTOR
OPERATING WITH DIFFERENT PROTOCOLS
Authors:
Pablo Araujo Granda - Polytechnic University of Catalonia
Marta Ginovart Gisbert - Polytechnic University of Catalonia
Collaborators:
Francisco Romero Campero
Yago Fernando Rodríguez
Raúl García Bravo
Carolina Caballero López
Javier Atoche Ortega
Francisco M. Romero Romero
Brief: Biotechnology experimentation in the laboratory with microorganisms is not
always viable, involves a series of constraints such as: cost, time, safety, security,
equipment, sterility and others. These tasks could be managed with the virtual
experimentation. The use of a virtual bioreactor would facilitate the understanding of
the real system favoring final handling.
People in different training courses seek to respond a series of questions, such as:
what is a bioreactor? Could I handle a bioreactor? What happens within a bioreactor?
Which behavior has a population of microorganisms within a bioreactor?
The answers could be obtained using a simulated complex system (virtual bioreactor),
which facilitates the analysis of the behavior and response of different populations of
microorganisms in different conditions of culture medium that can be controlled by the
observer.
The choice of a basic approach to study microbial system, either at the level of
population (usually continuous with differential equations) or based on the individual
(discrete and computational model) is an important decision that should be taken
depending on the project, the system characteristics, the problem to study and
assumptions when the continuum is not applicable.
Individuals based Models (IbMs) deal with individuals (live actors) as discrete
autonomous entities. These individuals have particular characteristics that change
according to the biological actions of its own behavior, interactions with others and the
environment.
Population-level approaches are mainly used for prediction purposes, due to its
simplicity and efficiency computational, and they are widely used. The IbMs power is
the features offered to interpret, understand and investigate the dynamics of living
systems. Allow us to treat the intrinsic variability of all living being, with the emergence
of the population behavior from the actions and interactions at the individual level.
The main objective is to develop a microbial bioreactor simulator, which is easy to
understand, and that it could be adapted to specific applications and useful for people
on the life sciences field.
Parameters: the system will be a virtual bioreactor operating with different protocols
(batch or continuous culture), which will contain initial amounts of nutrients, a number
of viable microorganisms, who will adapt to the environment that they are, because
they consume nutrients and generate end products, maintaining they viability over the
time.
Agent (micro-organism) variables:
a. Position in space (XY coordinates)
b. Biomass
c. Maintenance requirements
d. Reproduction biomass
e. Reproduction time
The environment variables (culture medium):
a. Nutrient concentrations
b. Product concentrations
System variables:
a. Nutrient input flow.
b. Culture medium output flow
c. Dilution ratio
d. Operation time
Key question: Is it possible to simulate the behavior of a microbial population in
different conditions within a bioreactor?
