P2. GREEN ALCAZAR
Authors:
Sergio Rodríguez
Salas Mendoza Muro
Francisco J. Pazos García
Collaborators:
Daniel Márquez Quintanilla
Jaime de Miguel Rodríguez
Brief: The Alcazar of Seville, the oldest royal residence in use in Europe, is an
essential node within the network of gardens that along the history of gardening and
agriculture have served as laboratories of acclimatization and dispersal of plant
species on the planet.
It is a conglomerate of gardens created by different cultures. A palimpsest in which
new species have been inserted depending on the inhabitants who lived in the fortress,
as well as influenced by the exchange networks that they established with the rest of
the world.
The gardens have more than 20.000 plants belonging, at least, to 183 different
species; and that are organized into three groups: Islamic gardens, Renaissance and
Modern ones.
From this perspective, the unique distribution of species in the gardens of the Alcazar
is the result of a slow overlay made by many travelers throughout history.
Some time ago we found a postcard of the gardens of the Alcazar intitled "El libirinto"
("The labyrinth", but misspelled). This postcard subtly suggests the purpose of the
research we proposed.
In its foreground we can see the new labyrinth of the palace. It is dated in 19XX, so it
shows a young stage of it... at most twenty years after its creation. Obviously, the title
of the postcard refers to this space, where it is difficult to orientate yourself but yet
easy to describe, easy to understand its structure; a vegetation pattern composed of
arcs of cypress and myrtle hedges (which did not appear in the original project, but
that ended up being selected by their availability in Seville with a low cost ).
In the background, the constructed contour that the gardens possess is insinuated. A
series of fences, walls and architectures that transform those spaces in an
unexpected secret in the dense urban fabric of the city center .
Between these two levels, an eventful green lush, colorful, emerges... Specifically we
are referring to the "Jardin Inglés" (English garden), but could well be the vision of other
gardens where the overlapping vegetation along the time has caused the loss of the
initial patterns to silently conquer a certain exuberance close to the climax (which has
been appreciated by many scholars as a loss of identity). Thus, compared to a
geometrical structure, this space represents another kind of labyrinth, not geometrical
but botanical, with a resulting pattern of species much more difficult to describe. This
does not mean that there is no organization, therefore, the challenge of this research
is to approach the understanding and appreciation of this "random" pattern.
Key question: What are the spatial association patterns among the different
vegetation species in the Alcazar of Seville?
